# SoftwareSecurity
**Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?**

Artemis Financial, a financial consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for savings, retirement, investments, and insurance, wanted me to address the issue they had modernizing their operations and implementing the most current, and effective software security. Ultimately, we are looking to protect the organization and its patrons from external threats, in addition to identifying any security vulnerabilities found within their current software.

**What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?**

I thought that I implemented the Hash Algorithm, SHA-512, particularly well. I think that when it came to the overall protection and securities of a web application, it can be overwhelming, and difficult to assess the state of an application, in addition to choosing the best methods to keep their data secure and safe. This is one of the biggest reasons it is important to code securely, because if there are vulnerabilities in your dependencies, and framework, as well as your code. You will easily be able to manipulate the application to break, in addition to using it to give yourself information that you otherwise are not supposed to have. This security offers the company wellbeing in the sense of trust, as if you are not a trustworthy organization, or if you suffer a cyber attack, customers are less likely to use your product, as well as come to you to fulfill the service they are looking to have fulfilled. In addition to this, if there is a cyber attack, you maybe facing a huge amount of law-suits, in addition to police investigations as well as the negative affects on the actual customers themselves.

**What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?**

The process of working through the vulnerability assessment was challenging because initially I did not have that much experience identifying different vulnerabilities in code. When I initially started looking through the code in addition to identifying the vulnerabilities found in the OWASP scan, I had to learn how to read the vulnerabilities, and understand exactly why they were un-safe, in addition to how they had to be fixed. What did really help, is the actual hands on experience that I got learning how to mitigate these problems, and overcome the challenges when it came to running the project. Figuring out how to run it initially was definitely a challenge, but struggling through the project really helped grow me as a developer.

**How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?**

The approach of increasing layers of security came with understanding the actual implementation of the project and the different types of encryption needed for the services we were looking to provide. Overall how to create certificates, in addition to being able to learn how to implement RSA with the encryption services detailed in the program was incredibly helpful for assessing the future vulnerabilities that may stem from bad code in a project, or the lack of security in the overall design. Determining the mitigation techniques however follow the use-case of different patterns and building strategies that consistently show that the application is secure after undergoing rigorous tests. 

**How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?**

After refractoring code, I was able to check to assure that the application was both functional and secure through running the project to assure it did exactly what it was supposed to do, in addition to doing a vulnerability scan that showed all of the weaker libraries that were used that needed to be updated. The introduction of new vulnerabilities would have shown an increase in number on the vulnerability scan, in addition to the highlighting of potential syntax errors, or the faulty execution of the overall application.

**What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?**

There were a ton of resources and coding practices I employed. Initially, the one thing that contributed to my success though was the research put in for the different types of implementation in spring boot applications that needed encryption. It was also incredibly helpful to understand the keytool to be able to use it on my Mac, because initially, it was difficult for me to use it on my Mac, so I had to use a virtual Windows machine I created in order to do the generation of the certificate in the proper way. Lastly, I think that the most important lesson to take away is that the usage of patterns inside of an application are the bread and butter for safe programming. There is a reason these patterns are so popular as the basic protections and security in code are implemented through tried methods that end in positive results, which also gives you an enormous amount of documentation to fall back on in the case there is something in question by the customer.

**Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?**

I think that the best thing to showcase for my future employer in this project would be the creation of the keys in addition to the implementation of the algorithm for encryption. I think that the use of both of these together in addition to the utilization of HTTPS instead of HTTP is really impressive, because it is not an easy feat to get spring boot applications working, yet alone determining how exactly to execute the application in the appropriate way and with the correct tools in place.
